<!-- START PRIVACY POLICY CODE --><div style="font-family:arial"><strong>What information do we collect?</strong> <br /><br />We collect information from you when you register on our site or information posted on our site.  <br /><br />When ordering or registering on our site, as appropriate, you may be asked to enter your: e-mail address. You may, however, visit our site anonymously.<br /><br /><strong>What do we use your information for?</strong> <br /><br />Any of the information we collect from you may be used to improve customer service (your information helps us to more effectively respond to your customer service requests and support needs)<br /><br /><strong>How do we protect your information?</strong> <br /><br />We implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you enter, submit, or access your personal information. <br /><br /><strong>Do we use cookies?</strong> <br /><br />Yes (Cookies are small files that a site or its service provider transfers to your computers hard drive through your Web browser (if you allow) that enables the sites or service providers systems to recognize your browser and capture and remember certain information<br /><br /> We use cookies to compile aggregate data about site traffic and site interaction so that we can offer better site experiences and tools in the future.<br /><br /><strong>Do we disclose any information to outside parties?</strong> <br /><br />We do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. This does not include trusted third parties who assist us in operating our website, conducting our business, or servicing you, so long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. We may also release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others rights, property, or safety. However, non-personally identifiable visitor information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses.<br /><br />